TREATY OF PEACE WITH GERMANY
(TREATY OF VERSAILLES)
Treaty and protocol signed at Versailles June 28, 1919; protocol signed
by Germany at Paris January 10, 1920
Treaty submitted to the Senate by the President of the United States for
advice and consent to ratification July 10, 1919; 1 Senate resolutions to advise and consent to ratification failed of adoption November 19,1919,2 and March 19, 1920; 3 treaty returned to the President pursuant to resolution of March 19, 1920 4
Protocol of June 28, 1919, submitted to the Senate by the President of
the United States July 31, 1919; 5 considered by the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations and laid aside without action on February 10, 1920; 6 returned to the Secretary of State pursuant to
Senate resolution of February 12, 1935 7
Proces-verbal of first deposit of ratifications at Paris dated January 10,
1920
Entered into force January 10,1920,4:15 p.m., as between contracting
parties (the United States was not a party) 8
Revised from time to time by the contracting parties
1919 For. ReI. (Paris Peace Conference,
XIII) 55, 740, 743; Senate document 51,
66th Congress, 1stsession
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, THE BRITISH EMPIRE, FRANCE, ITALY
and JAPAN,
These Powers being described in the present Treaty as the Principal Allied
and Associated Powers,
BELGIUM, BOLIVIA, BRAZIL, CHINA, CUBA, ECUADOR, GREECE, GUATEMALA, HAITI, THE HEDJAZ, HONDURAS, LIBERIA, NICARAGUA, PANAMA,
1 S. Doc. 49, 66th Cong., 1st sess. (text of treaty); S. Doc. 50, 66th Cong., 1st sess.
(address of the President to the Senate delivered on July 10, 1919).
• Congressional Record, Nov. 19, 1919 (vol. 58, pt. 9), p. 8786 fT.
• Ibid., Mar. 19,1920 (vol. 59, pt. 5), p. 4598 fr.
'Ibid., Mar. 19, 1920 (vol. 59, pt. 5), p. 4600; filed with Unperfected Treaties 1-5
(Department of State archives).
G S. Ex. A, 66th Cong., 1st sess.; S. Doc. 66, 66th Cong., 1st sess.
eCongressional Record, Feb. 10, 1920 (vol. 59, pt. 3), p. 2678.
7 Ibid., Feb. 12, 1935 (vol. 79, pt. 2), p. 1825; filed with Unperfected Treaties G-9
and 1-5 (Department of State archives).
e For the treaty of Aug. 25, 1921, restoring friendly relations between the United States
and Gennany, see TS 658, post.
43
44 MULTILATERAL AGREEMENTS 1918-1930
PERU, POLAND, PORTUGAL, ROUMANIA, THE SERB-CROAT-SLOVENE STATE,
SIAM, CZECHO-SLOVAKIA, and URUGUAY,
These Powers constituting with the Principal Powers mentioned above the
Allied and Associated Powers,
of the one part;
And GERMANY,
of the other part;
Bearing in mind that on the request of the Imperial German Government
an Armistice was granted on November 11, 1918,9 to Germany by the Principal Allied and Associated Powers in order that a Treaty of Peace might be
concluded with her, and
The Allied and Associated Powers being equally desirous that the war in
which they were successively involved directly or indirectly and which originated in the declaration of war by Austria-Hungary on July 28,1914, against
Serbia, the declaration of war by Germany against Russia on August 1, 1914,
and against France on August 3,1914, and in the invasion of Belgium, should
be replaced by a firm, just and durable Peace,
For this purpose the HIGH CONTRACTING PARTIES represented as follows:
THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, by:
The Honourable Woodrow WILSON, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES,
acting in his own name and by his own proper authority;
The Honourable Robert LANSING, Secretary of State;
The Honourable Henry WHITE, formerly Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary of the United States at Rome and Paris;
The Honourable Edward M. HOUSE;
General Tasker H. BLISS, Military Representative of the United States
on the Supreme War Council;
HIS MAJESTY THE KING OF THE UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT BRITAIN AND
IRELAND AND OF THE BRITISH DOMINIONS BEYOND THE SEAS, EMPEROR OF INDIA, by:
The Right Honourable David LLOYD GEORGE, M.P., First Lord of His
Treasury and Prime Minister;
The Right Honourable Andrew BONAR LAW, M.P., His Lord Privy Seal;
The Right Honourable Viscount MII,.NER, G.C.B., G.C.M.G., His Secretary of State for the Colonies;
The Right Honourable Arthur James BALFOUR, a.M., M.P., His Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs;
The Right Honourahle George Nicoll BARNES, M.P., Minister without
portfolio;
And
.• Ante, p. 9.
TREATY OF VERSAILLES-JUNE 28, 1919 45
for the DOMINION OF CANADA, by:
The Honourable Charles Joseph DOHERTY, Minister of Justice;
The Honourable Arthur Lewis SIFTON, Minister of Customs;
for the COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA, by:
The Right Honourable William Morris HUGHES, Attorney General and
Prime Minister;
The Right Honourable Sir Joseph COOK, G.C.M.G., Minister for the
Navy;
for the UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA, by:
General the Right Honourable Louis BOTHA, Minister of Native Affairs
and Prime Minister;
Lieutenant-General the Right Honourable Jan Christian SMUTS, KC.,
Minister of Defence;
for the DOMINION OF NEW ZEALAND, by:
The Right Honourable William Ferguson MASSEY, Minister of Labour
and Prime Minister;
for INDIA, by:
The Right Honourable Edwin Samuel MONTAGU, M. P., His Secretary of
State for India;
Major-General His Highness Maharaja Sir Ganga Singh Bahadur, Maharaja of BIKANER, G.C.S.L, G.C.LE., G.c.v.a., KC.B., A.D.C.;
THE PRESIDENT OF THE FRENCH REPUBLIC, by:
Mr. Georges CLEMENCEAU, President of the Council, Minister of War;
Mr. Stephen PICHON, Ministerfor Foreign Affairs;
Mr. Louis-Lucien KLOTZ, Minister of Finance;
Mr. Andre TARDIEU, Commissary General for Franco-American Military
Affairs;
Mr. Jules CAMBON, Ambassador of France;
HIS MAJESTY THE KING OF ITALY, by:
Baron S. SONNINO, Deputy;
Marquis G. IMPERIALI, Senator, Ambassador of His Majesty the King of
Italy at London;
Mr. S. CRESPI, Deputy;
HIS MAJESTY THE EMPEROR OF JAPAN, by:
Marquis SAIONZI, formerly President of the Council of Ministers;
Baron MAKINO, formerly Minister for Foreign Affairs, Member of the
Diplomatic Council;
Viscount CHINDA, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of H.
M. the Emperor of Japan at London;
Mr. K MATSUI, Ambassador Extraorainary and Plenipotentiary of H. M.
the Emperor ofJapan at Paris;
46 MULTILATERAL AGREEMENTS 1918-1930
Mr. H. IJUIN, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of H. M.
the Emperor ofJapan at Rome;
HIS MAJESTY THE KING OF THE BELGIANS, by:
Mr. Paul HYMANS, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Minister of State;
Mr. Jules van den HEUVEL, Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary, Minister of State;
Mr. Emile VANDERVELDE, Minister of Justice, Minister of State;
THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA, by :
Mr. Ismael MONTES, Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary
of Bolivia at Paris;
THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL, by:
Mr. Joao Pandia CALOGERAS, Deputy, formerly Minister of Finance;
Mr. Raul FERNANDES, Deputy;
Mr. Rodrigo Octavio de L. MENEZES, Professor of International Law of
Rio de Janeiro;
THE PRESIDENT OF THE CHINESE REPUBLIC, by:
Mr. Lou Tseng-Tsiang, Minister for Foreign Affairs;
Mr. Chengting Thomas WANG, formerly Minister of Agriculture and
Commerce;
THE PRESIDENT OF THE CUBAN REPUBLIC, by:
Mr. Antonio Sanchez de BUSTAMANTE, Dean of the Faculty of Law in the
University of Havana, President of the Cuban Society of International
Law;
THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR, by:
Mr. Enrique DaRN Y DE ALSUA, Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary of Ecuador at Paris;
HIs MAJESTY THE KING OF THE HELLENES, by:
Mr. Eleftherios K. VENISELOS, President of the Council of Ministers;
Mr. Nicolas POLITIS, Minister for Foreign Affairs;
THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA, by:
Mr. Joaquin MENDEZ, formerly Minister of State for Public Works and
Public Instruction, Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary
of Guatemala at Washington, Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary on special mission at Paris;
THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF HAITI, by:
Mr. Tertullien GUILBAUD, Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary of Haiti at Paris;
HIS MAJESTY THE KING OF THE HEDJAZ, by:
Mr. Rustem HAioAR;
Mr. Abdul Hadi AOUNI;
TREATY OF VERSAILLES-JUNE 28, 1919 47
THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS, by:
Dr. Policarpo BONILLA, on special mission to Washington, formerly President of the Republic of Honduras, Envoy Extraordinary and Minister
Plenipotentiary;
THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA, by:
The Honourable Charles Dunbar Burgess KING, Secretary of State;
THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA, by:
Mr. Salvador CHAMORRO, President of the Chamber of Deputies;
THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF PANAMA, by:
Mr. Antonio BURGOS, Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary
of Panama at Madrid;
THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF PERU, by :
Mr. Carlos G. CANDAMO, Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary of Peru at Paris;
THE PRESIDENT OF THE POLISH REPUBLIC, by:
Mr. Ignace J. PADEREWSKI, President of the Council of Ministers, Minister
for Foreign Affairs;
Mr. Roman DMOWSKI, President of the Polish National Committee;
THE PRESIDENT OF THE PORTUGUESE REPUBLIC, by:
Dr. Affonso Augusto DA COSTA, formerly President of the Council of
Ministers;
Dr. Augusto Luiz Vieira SOARES, formerly Minister for Foreign Affairs;
HIS MAJESTY THE KING OF ROUMANIA, by:
Mr. Ion I. C. BRATIANO, President of the Council of Ministers, Minister
for Foreign Affairs;
General Constantin COANDA, Corps Commander, A.D.C. to the King,
formerly President of the Council of Ministers;
HIS MAJESTY THE KING OF THE SERBS, THE CROATS, AND THE SLOVENES,
by:
Mr. Nicholas P. PACHITCH, formerly President of the Council of Ministers;
Mr. Ante TRUMBIC, Minister for Foreign Affairs;
Mr. Milenko VESNITCH, Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary of H. M. the King of the Serbs, the Croats and the Slovenes at
Paris;
HIS MAJESTY THE KING OF SIAM, by:
His Highness Prince CHAROON, Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary of H. M. the King of Siam at Paris;
His Serene Highness Prince Traidos PRABANDHU, Under Secretary of
State for Foreign Affairs;
48 MULTILATERAL AGREEMENTS 1918-1930
THE PRESIDENT OF THE CZECHo-SLOVAK REPUBLIC, by:
Mr. Karel KRAMAR, President of the Council of Ministers;
Mr. Eduard BENES, Minister for Foreign Affairs; .
THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF URUGUAY, by:
Mr. Juan Antonio BUERO, Minister for Foreign Affairs, formerly Minister
of Industry;
GERMANY, by:
Mr. Hermann MULLER, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Empire;
Dr. BELL, Minister of the Empire;
Acting in the name of the German Empire and of each and every component State,
WHO having communicated their full powers found in good and due form
have AGREED AS FOLLOWS:
From the coming into force of the present Treaty the state of war will
terminate. From that moment and subject to the provisions of this Treaty
official relations with Germany, and with any of the German States, will be
resumed by the Allied and Associated Powers.
PART I
THE COVENANT OF THE LEAGUE OF NATIONS
THE HIGH CONTRACTING PARTIES,
In order to promote international co-operation and to achieve international peace and security
by the acceptance of obligations not to resort to war,
by the prescription of open, just and honourable relations between nations,
by the firm estal;>lishment of the understandings of international law as the
actual rule of conduct among Governments, and
by the maintenance of justice and a scrupulous respect for all treaty obligations in the dealings of organised peoples with one another,
Agree to this Covenant of the League of Nations.
ARTICLE 1
The original Members of the League of Nations shall be those of the
Signatories which are named in the Annex to this Covenant and also such
of those other States named in the Annex as shall accede without reservation to this Covenant. Such accession shall be effected by a Declaration deposited with the Secretariat within two months of the coming into force of
the Covenant. Norice thereof shall be sent to all other Members of the
League.
TREATY OF VERSAILLES-JUNE 28, 1919 49
Any fully self-governing State, Dominion or Colony not named in the
Annex may become a Member of the League if its admission is agreed to
by two-thirds of the Assembly, provided that it shall give effective guarantees
of its sincere intention to observe its international obligations, and shall accept
such regulations as may be prescribed by the League in regard to its military,
naval and air forces and armaments.
Any Member of the League may, after two years' notice of its intention
so to do, withdraw from the League, provided that all its international obligations and all its obligations under this Covenant shall have been fulfilled
at the time of its withdrawal.
ARTICLE 2
The action of the League under this Covenant shall be effected through
the instrumentality of an Assembly and of a Council, with a permanent
Secretariat.
ARTICLE 3
The Assembly shall consist of Representatives of the Members of the
League.
The Assembly shall meet at stated intervals and from time to time as occasion may require at the Seat of the League or at such other place as may be
decided upon.
The Assembly may deal at its meetings with any matter within the sphere
of action of the League or affecting the peace of the world.
At meetings of the Assembly each Member of the League shall have one
vote, and may have not more than three Representatives.
ARTICLE 4
The Council shall consist of Representatives of the Principal Allied and
Associated Powers, together with Representatives of fouf other Members of
the League. These four Members of the League shall be selected by the Assembly from time to time in its discretion. Until the appointment of the Representatives of the four Members of the League first selected by the Assembly,
Representatives of Belgium, Brazil, Spain and Greece shall be members of
the Council.
With the approval of the majority of the Assembly, the Council may name
additional Members of the League whose Representatives shall always be
members of the Council; the Council with like approval may increase the
number of Members of the League to be selected by the Assembly for representation on the Council.
The Council shall meet from time to time as occasion may require, and at
least once a year, at the Seat of the League, or at such other place as may
be decided upon.
50 MULTILATERAL AGREEMENTS 1918-1930
The Council may deal at its meetings with any matter within the sphere
of action of the League or affecting the peace of the world.
Any Member of the League not represented on the Council shall be invited
to send a Representative to sit as a member at any meeting of the Council
during the consideration of matters specially affecting the interests of that
Member of the League.
At meetings of the Council, each Member of the League represented on
the Council shall have one vote, and may have not more than one Representative.
ARTICLE 5
Except where otherwise expressly provided in this Covenant or by the
terms of the present Treaty, decisions at any meeting of the Assembly or of
the Council shall require the agreement of all the Members of the League
represented at the meeting.
All matters of procedure at meetings of the Assembly or of the Council,
including the appointment of Committees to investigate particular matters,
shall be regulated by the Assembly or by the Council and may be decided by
a majority of the Members of the League represented at the meeting.
The first meeting of the Assembly and the first meeting of the Council shall
be summoned by the President of the United States of America.
ARTICLE 6
The permanent Secretariat shall be established at the Seat of the League.
The Secretariat shall comprise a Secretary General and such secretaries and
staff as may be required.
The first Secretary General shall be the person named in the Annex; thereafter the Secretary General shall be appointed by the Council with the approval of the majority of the Assembly.
The secretaries and staff of the Secretariat shall be appointed by the Secretary General with the approval of the Council.
The Secretary General shall act in that capacity at all meetings of the
Assembly and of the Council.
The expenses of the Secretariat shall be borne by the Members of the
League in accordance with the apportionment of the expenses of the International Bureau of the Universal Postal Union.
ARTICLE 7
The Seat of the League is established at Geneva.
The Council may at any time decide that the Seat of the League shall
be established elsewhere.
All positions under or in connection with the League, including the Secretariat, shall be open equally to men and women.
TREATY OF VERSAILLES-JUNE 28, 1919 51
Representatives of the Members of the League and officials of the League
when engaged on the business of the League shall enjoy diplomatic privileges
and immunities.
The buildings and other property occupied by the League or its officials
or by Representatives attending its meetings shall be inviolable.
ARTICLE 8
The Members of the League recognise that the maintenance of peace requires the reduction of national armaments to the lowest point consistent with
national safety and the enforcement by common action of international
obligations.
The Council, taking account of the geographical situation and circumstances of each State, shall formulate plans for such reduction for the consideration and action of the several Governments.
Such plans shall be subject to reconsideration and revision at least every
ten years.
After these plans shall have been adopted by the several Governments,
the limits of armaments therein fixed shall not be exceeded without the concurrence of the Council.
The Members of the League agree that the manufacture by private enterprise of munitions and implements of war is open to grave objections. The
Council shall advise how the evil effects attendant upon such manufacture
can be prevented, due regard being had to the necessities of those Members
of the League which are not able to manufacture the munitions and implements of war necessary for theirsafety.
The Members of the League undertake to interchange full and frank
information as to the scale of their armaments, their military, naval and air
programmes and the condition of such of their industries as are adaptable to
war-like purposes.
ARTICLE 9
A permanent Commission shall be constituted to advise the Council on the
execution of the provisions of Articles 1 and 8 and on military, naval and air
questions generally.
ARTICLE 10
The Members of the League undertake to respect and preserve as against
external aggression the territorial integrity and existing political independence
of all Members of the League. In case of any such aggression or in case of
any threat or danger of such aggression the Council shall advise upon the
means by which this obligation shall be fulfilled.
ARTICLE 11
Any war or threat of war, whether immediately affecting any of the Members of the League or not, is hereby declared a matter of concern to the whole
52 MULTILATERAL AGREEMENTS 1918-1930
League, and the League shall take any action that may be deemed wise and
effectual to safeguard the peace of nations. In case any such emergency
should arise the Secretary General shall on the request of any Member of the
League forthwith summon a meeting of the Council.
It is also declared to be the friendly right of each Member of the League
to bring to the attention of the Assembly or of the Council any circumstance
whatever affecting international relations which threatens to disturb international peace or the good understanding between nations upon which peace
depends.
ARTICLE 12
The Members of the League agree that if there should arise between them
any dispute likely to lead to a rupture, they will submit the matter either to
arbitration or to inquiry by the Council, and they agree in no case to resort
to war until three months after the award by the arbitrators or the report by
the Council.
In any case under this Article the award of the arbitrators shall be made
within a reasonable time, and the report of the Council shall be made within
six months after the submission of the dispute.
ARTICLE 13
The Members of the League agree that whenever any dispute shall arise
between them which they recognise to be suitable for submission to arbitration
and which cannot be satisfactorily settled by diplomacy, they will submit the
whole subject-matter to arbitration.
Disputes as to the interpretation of a treaty, as to any question of internationallaw, as to the existence of any fact which if established would constitute a breach of any international obligation, or as to the extent and nature
of the reparation to be made for any such breach, are declared to be among
those which are generally suitable for submission to arbitration.
For the consideration of any such dispute the court of arbitration to which
the case is referred shall be the Court agreed on by the parties to the dispute
or stipulated in any convention existing between them.
The Members of the League agree that they will carry out in full good
faith any award that may be rendered, and that they will not resort to war
against a Member of the League which complies therewith. In the event of
any failure to carry out such an award, the Council shall propose what steps
should be taken to give effect thereto.
ARTICLE 14
The Council shall formulate and submit to the Members of the League for
adoption plans for the establishment of a Permanent Court of International
Justice. The Court shall be competent to hear and determine any dispute of
an international character which the parties thereto submit to it. The Court
TREATY OF VERSAILLES-JUNE 28, 1919 53
may also give an advisory opinion upon any dispute or question referred. to
it by the Council or by the Assembly.
ARTICLE 15
If there should arise between Members of the League any dispute likely to
lead to a rupture, which is not submitted to arbitration in accordance with
Article 13, the Members of the League agree that they will submit the matter
to the Council. Any party to the dispute may effect such submission by giving notice of the existence of the dispute to the Secretary General, who will
make all necessary arrangements for a full investigation and consideration
thereof.
For this purpose the parties to the dispute will communicate to the Secretary General, as promptly as possible, statements of their case with all the
relevant facts and papers, and the Council may forthwith direct the publication thereof.
The Council shall endeavour to effect a settlement of the dispute, and if
such efforts are successful, a statement shall be made public giving such facts
and explanations regarding the dispute and the terms of settlement thereof
as the Council may deem appropriate. _
If the dispute is not thus settled, the Council either unanimously or by a
majority vote shall make and publish a report containing a statement of the
facts of the dispute and the recommendations which are deemed just and
proper in regard thereto. .
Any Member of the League represented on the Council may make public
a statement of the facts of the dispute and of its conclusions regarding the
same.
If a report by the Council is unanimously agreed to by the members thereof
other than the Representatives of one or more of the parties to the dispute,
the Members of the League agree that they will not go to war with any party
to the dispute which complies with the recommendations of the report.
If the Council fails to reach a report which is unanimously agreed to by the
members thereof, other than the Representatives of one or more of the parties
to the dispute, the Members of the League reserve to themselves the right to
tak~ such action as they shall consider necessary for the maintenance of right
and justice. .
If the dispute between the parties is claimed by one of them, and is found
by the Council, to arise out of a matter which by international law is solely
within the domestic jurisdiction of that party, the Council shall so report, and
shall make no recommendation as to its settlement.
The Council may in any case under this Article refer the dispute to the Assembly. The dispute shall be so referred at the request of either party to the
dispute, provided that such request be made within fourteen days after the
submission of the dispute to the Council.
54 MULTILATERAL AGREEMENTS 1918-1930
In any case referred to the Assembly, all the provisions of this Article and
of Article 12 relating to the action and powers of the Council shall apply
to the action and powers of the Assembly, provided that a report made by
the Assembly, if concurred in by the Representatives of those Members of the
League represented on the Council and of a majority of the other Members
of the League, exclusive in each case of the Representatives of the parties to
the dispute, shall have the same force as a report by the Council concurred in
by all the members thereof other than the Representatives of one or more of
the parties to the dispute.
ARTICLE 16
Should any Member of the League resort to war in disregard of its covenants under Articles 12, 13 or 15, it shall ipso facto be deemed to have committed an act of war against all other Members of the League, which hereby
undertake immediately to subject it to the severance of all trade or financial
relations, the prohibition of all intercourse between their nationals and the
nationals of the covenant-breaking State, and the prevention of all financial,
commercial or personal intercourse between the nationals of the covenantbreaking State and the nationals of any other State, whether a Member of
the League or not.
It shall be the duty of the Council in such case to recommend to the several Governments concerned what effective military, naval or air force the
Members of the League shall severally contribute to the armed forces to be
used to protect the covenants of the League.
The Members of the League agree, further, that they will mutually support one another in the financial and economic measures which are taken
under this Article, in order to minimise the loss and inconvenience resulting
from the above measures, and that they will mutually support one another
in resisting any special measures aimed at one of their number by the covenant-breaking State, and that they will take the necessary steps to afford
passage through their territory to the forces of any of the Members of the
League which are co-operating to protect the covenants of the League.
Any Member of the League which has violated any covenant of the
League may be declared to be no longer a Member of the League by a v~te
of the Council concurred in by the Representatives of all the other Members
of the League represented thereon.
ARTICLE 17
In the event of a dispute between a Member of the League and a State
which is not a Member of the League, or between States not Members of the
League, the State or States not Members of the League shall be invited to
accept the obligations of membership in the League for the purposes of such
dispute, upon such conditions as the Council may deem just. If such invita-
TREATY OF VERSAILLES-JUNE 28, 1919 55
tion is accepted, the provisions of Articles 12 to 16 inclusive shall be applied
with such modifications as may be deemed necessary by the Council.
Upon such invitation being given the Council shall immediately institute
an inquiry into the circumstances of the dispute and recommend such action
as may seem best and most effectual in the circumstances.
If a State so invited shall refuse to accept the obligations of membership
in the League for the purposes of such dispute, and shall resort to war
against a Member of the League, the provisions of Article 16 shall be applicable as against the State taking such action.
If both parties to the dispute when so invited refuse to accept the obligations of membership in the League for the purposes of such dispute, the
Council may take such measures and make such recommendations as will
prevent hostilities and will result in the settlement of the dispute.
ARTICLE 18
Every treaty or international engagement entered into hereafter by any
Member of the League shall be forthwith registered with the Secretariat and
shall as soon as possible be published by it. No such treaty or international
engagement shall be binding until so registered.
ARTICLE 19
The Assembly may from time to time advise the reconsideration by Members of the League of treaties which have become inapplicable and the con- .
sideration of international conditions whose continuance might endanger the
peace of the world.
ARTICLE 20
The Members of the League severally agree that this Covenant is accepted
as abrogating all obligations or understandings inter se which are inconsistent
with the terms thereof, and solemnly undertake that they will not hereafter
enter into any engagements inconsistent with the terms thereof.
In case any Member of the League shall, before becoming a Member of
the League, have undertaken any obligations inconsistent with the terms
of this Covenant, it shall be the duty of such Member to take immediate steps
to procure its release from such obligations. .
ARTICLE 21
Nothing in this Covenant shall be deemed to affect the validity of international engagements, such as treaties of arbitration or regional understandings like the Monroe doctrine, for securing the maintenance of pea,ce.
ARTICLE 22
To those colonies and territories which as a consequence of the late war
have ceased to be under the sovereignty of the States which formerly governed
56 MULTILATERAL AGREEMENTS 1918-1930
them and which are inhabited by peoples not yet able to stand by themselves
under the strenuous conditions of the modem world, there should be applied
the principle that the well-being and development of such peoples form a
sacred trust of civilisation and that securities for the performance of this trust
should be embodied in this Covenant.
The best method of giving practical effect to this principle is that the
tutelage of such peoples should be entrusted to advanced nations who by
reason of their resources, their experience or their geographical position can
best undertake this responsibility, and who are willing to accept it, and that
this tutelage should be exercised by them as Mandatories on behalf of the
League.
The character of the mandate must differ according to the stage of the
development of the people, the geographical situation of the territory, its
economic conditions and other similar circumstances.
Certain communities formerly belonging to the Turkish Empire have
reached a stage of development where their existence as independent nations
can be provisionally recognised subject to the rendering of administrative
advice and assistance by a Mandatory until such time as they are able to stand
alone. The wishes of these communities must be a principal consideration in
the selection of the Mandatory.
Other peoples, especially those of Central Africa, are at such a stage that
the Mandatory must be responsible for the administration of the territory
under conditions which will guarantee freedom of conscience and religion,
subject only to the maintenance of public order and morals, the prohibition of
abuses such as the slave trade, the arms traffic and the liquor traffic, and the
prevention of the establishment of fortifications or military and naval bases
and of military training of the natives for other than police purposes and the
defence of territory, and will also secure equal opportunities for the trade and
commerce of other Members of the League.
There are territories, such as South-West Africa and certain of the South
Pacific Islands, which, owing to the sparseness of their population, or their
small size, or their remoteness from the centres of civilisation, or their geographical contiguity to the territory of the Mandatory, and other circumstances, can be best administered under the laws of the Mandatory as integral
portions of its territory, subject to the safeguards above mentioned in the
interests of the indigenous population.
In every case. of mandate, the Mandatory shall render to the Council an
annual report in reference to the territory committed to its charge.
The degree of authority, control, or administration to be exercised by the
Mandatory shall, if not previously agreed upon by the Members of the
League, be explicitly defined in each case by the Council.
A permanent Commission shall be constituted to receive and examine the
annual reports of the Mandatories and to advise the Council on all matters
relating to the observance of the mandates